# Daisy_Chain
Code for 3d printed flower pendant and hoop created using Mathematica 
                           
using the function Manipulate[PolarPlot[r = Cos[a*t], {t, 0, 2*Pi}], {a, 0, 10, 1}] users are able to explore various "flowers"                            
                            
                            
                                                     
                            
This project was created for Math 231W here is my essay explaining and process and inspiration of the pendant.

Math with Mathematica 213W
Marin Azhar 
Project 2: Parametric Daisy Pendent

  Out of a single parametric 3D equation, which has been used to create two different types of flowers and two identical hoops, the flowers lay flat while the single hoop on top has its Y and Z axis functions switched. This switch allows a rotation of the hoop allows the Parametric Daisy sculpture to be a pendant for a necklace. 
    
  The phrase “daisy chaining” has inspired the final sculpture. In terms of computer hardware, daisy-chaining is the act of connecting several devices in a linear series. Moreover, because Mathematica is a programming language, it is interesting to combine concepts that are related to computers as well as math and nature. Therefore, because computer hardware daisy chains are linear, the final pendant is also presented in a linear format. The practicality of a flat pendant is so the design can be viewed on the wearer's neck. This sculpture is not just an object; it is a piece of jewelry. Thus, it is meant to be worn and of course, most importantly, be atheistically pleasing in the way it reflects the complexity of mathematics and nature.  

  While a daisy is a considerably simple-looking flower, the construction of a daisy is quite unique and exciting. There are over 20,000 different species of daisies, with different numbers of petals, which is very impressive. Moreover, what most people might not know is that a common daisy has six petals and is two flowers in one. The (usually) white petals count as one flower, and the cluster of petals around the yellow is as another flower. While it is slightly hard to find a matching daisy that the exact number of petals as the daisies on this pendent, aesthetically speaking, on Mathematica, a parametric flower with eight petals is the most pleasing looking flower. This is because the petals created by the parametric 3D equation become more clustered linearly; thus, the lack of a gap between each petal makes the flower look congested. While a flower with more petals would be more of an accurate representation of a daisy, aesthetically speaking, it starts to lose the inherent visual appeal.

  Furthermore, because this sculpture is a tiny object, a part of the visual aspect of this pendent relies on the negative space around each petal. The negative space allows this pendant to have an airy quality that makes it feel light and gives it an atmosphere that is reminiscent of spring and fields of daisies. In one of those fields that possibly contains some of the 20,000 different species of daisies, maybe it will be possible to find an eight petaled daisy to match the pendant. Thus, However, because the chances are low, as a design decision, the centerpiece of this pendant is shaped to resemble a four-leaved clover for added luck. The probability of finding a four-leaved clover in a field is 1 in 10,000 for every clover spotted. 10,000 is half the number of species of daisies, and four is half of eight. Although none of these facts are correlated, because there can be some ratio-relation spotted between the numbers, it makes this pendent more meaningful in terms of design choices.
  
  Additionally, the eight-four-eight petaled pendant design was chosen because the eight petaled daisy and the clover's edges perfectly intersect with each other, which makes it very aesthetically pleasing even though the design itself might look at little peculiar.  However, the peculiarity of this pendant is what makes it unique. It is possible to create a simple daisy chain that accurately reflects the number of petals on a common daisy; however, such pendant could most likely easily found on the internet. Thus, to replicate a common daisy would not be interesting. It would not be a fun project if the finial sculpture were not one of a kind. Therefore, the peculiarity of the Parametric Daisy pendant only serves to make the overall structure more appealing.
Likewise, because this pendant is a piece of jewelry, the final material for this piece will be made in metal. Pervious, it was undecided on precisely what kind of metal will be used; however, the overall price on Shapeways will dictate the kind of finish chosen to create this piece of jewelry. Overall the intention of choosing a metal finish is to give it more of a sophisticated feel. The metal will give the impression that this is a real piece of jewelry that was purchased from a funky boutique.

  After further inspection of the different types of metal offered on Shapeways, a conclusion of using gold plated brass has decided. This type of finish gives the jewelry a smooth finish that is appropriate for a piece of jewelry, and it is much more affordable than to use actual gold.  The steel option also has a gold option, which is also cheaper than the gold-plated brass. However, the steel's gold finish would most likely come off after some wear and tear; thus, for durability and longevity, the gold-plated brass is the most appropriate choice. Additionally, going from a plastic prototype to metal will give the overall pendant more weight, thus making it feel more sophisticated when someone wears it. Furthermore, the gold-plated brass will also further smoothen out the rounded corners of the pendant, thus elevating the quality of the jewelry.
  
  While the design has been officiated and sent to Shapeways, to get to this point has been a very challenging journey. The first obstacle that was faced was the difficulty of sticking to a project idea. The first project in creating a tutorial that evolved over time; thus, there was no precise goal from the start. However, with this project going from a set goal to attempting to reach that goal is a much more complicated process. The topic for this project has been changed multiple times due to the directionless feeling of an endless possibility with a lack of understanding of 3D graphics.
However, this mental roadblock was cleared after messing around with various ShericalPlot3D functions found on the documentation center. With the manipulate Function, I was able to change the inputted degree and other various components to the function, which then allowed for the exploration of different shapes. Various interesting shapes resembled flowers. From here, the information that flowers can be created from some spherical equation had been deduced.  However, the spherical coordinates did not have any depth to them; thus, the problem of unable to print out the spherical plots was also deduced. The overall structure, while very pretty, did not have volume; thus, then I started to look for other kinds of functions. After looking through the minimal work experience examples of taking a 2D shape and making it into a 3D shape, this sparked the idea to first create a 2D graph than to Discretize the graphics, later on, to give it depth. From here, the use of polar coordinates took place in which I manipulated a simple PolarPlot function of Cos[a*t], in which t went from 0 to 2Pi, and the variable a went from 0 to 10. This allowed for a fascinating exploration of different types of flowers with different sets of petals. From here, there was a new change of how to make the PloarPlot into. 3D function.

  Unfortunately, adding a Thickness to the plot style did not give the function any volume when using the DiscretizeGraphics function. Thus, it had become evident that a different function was required. Using the knowledge from Calculus, it was possible to change functions from polar coordinates to a parametric 3D function. Moreover, to add depth to my desired flower, I used the Extrusion function and made sure that my Z coordinates have a none zero value.

  From here, the problems faced were mostly issues with the loading speed of Mathematica. Having four different connected objects, all with mesh 200, made Mathematica very slow, and once I tried to upload it to shape ways, the file size was too big. However, this was all solved once the mesh was changed to 100. Now that that was out of the way, the focus of project was able to sift towards the construction of the pendant. Using the knowledge of understanding how to sift the coordinates of an equation and though the use of the manipulate function, the desired placement of each flower was decided. Furthermore, understanding that changing the Y and Z functions of a parametric equation helps rotate the hoop which creates an interlocking chain with a second hoop was very helpful knowledge as it allowed this pendent to have an opening for a chain to go through. The rotate function only works for graphics however changing the axis of the parametric equation was just as useful, if not more because it tested the basic understandings of coordinate systems. 
The Parametric Daisy pendant has dramatically evolved throughout this project. It went from a flat prototype to what will now be a beautiful pendant. During the revision process, I was going to turn my flower into a series of flower bookmarks; however, I realized Shapeways would not be able to print thin enough. Thus, I sifted to the idea of creating a pendant. If I had more time and more knowledge, I would create a pendant that is a shape of a Daisy, made up of smaller Daisy segments, and have it interlock with a copy of itself, creating a Daisy Chain. While there are many other possibilities to change up my pendant overall, I am happy I was able to create the interlocking pieces. Unfortunately, Shapeways will be unable to print it in the gold- plated brass. Thus, I will have to make the discussion to take of the second hoop. There are so many possibilities in which I could improve my design, however knowing that I have the tools and ability to make such changes is satisfying enough.

  This pendant has a very peculiar design to which I believe no real jewelry artist would make because, at first glance, it makes no sense. However, this is what makes this design original. At first glance, there does not seem to be anything mathematical or complicated about this shape; however, this design is created by the manipulation of a single parametric equation and the understanding of coordinate systems. The construction and idea of this pendent are far more complex than one might assume, and that is what makes this exciting piece to share. In the end I hope people can appreciate the simplistic aesthetic of the pendent and the complexity of its construction. 
